Date - 25th July 2026

SuperEngiTech Visit
SuperEngiTech is a big company located in Padavla, district. Close to Sapar and opposite side from where
Ribda is located. 2 roads to reach there. One is Kothariya Road (From where we went there) Avoid these Road as it is in very bad shape as passes through
Villages. Another is via Gondal Road, from which we came back, suggested and good as its proper maintained highway

They have 4 big units in Rajkot. Their work includes Casting, Making Machine Parts. All 4 units big

They have a contract with German Industry who is Making the main core of Earth Movers. The JCB and all that. 
The parts of JCB move via Hydraulic Fluid inside them. When the operator pushes a stick the hydraulic arm moves.
This happens because of hydraulic fluid inside it re routes and passes through this complex fluid routing main core of it.
Basically place from where all the hydraulic fluid passes to reach the ultimate arm

So their job is to produce these machines

Reason for our connection - The end product that is made is given to us for Heat Treatment in the end. Currently they just give us small samples

We went to visit first Unit 1 (There Main Corporate resides there) where we met Marathi Guy who is the head of Development Department

He contacts us for Heat Treatment and all that. Because of this connection we were able to meet one of the main Directors of industry.

They are multi family group so many Directors involved.

We met that Director. He showed us how the final part looks like from inside with extreme minute details.

He wants us to give us all the deal for their Heat Treatment to us. For that we were dicussing to make a new unit close to that area.
So basically entire their heat Treatment comes to us.But they have still not given us a final Go To since they first have given the heat treated sample to Germany,
and based on their final response they will tell us.

Their Industry is expanding as well. One of the Director went to Chicago for new Venture there
So this industry is a Giant (Compared to Us and Considerable enough at Rajkot level) who exports. (Exporting itself means a well established factory)
The reason Germans itself arent manufacturing is because India has Cheap Labour. Also Indian Labour is willing to work in these conditions which is 
difficult for too many Human Safety Protocols in Europe which makes production costly

They have entire clear Departments of Quality, Development, HR, all that

There after we went to visit Their Unit 2 (The workshop). The Marathi Guy accompanied us for a tour

There process is this

Main Industry-

1) They make a soft mould from sand from the negative image of a sample metal piece (so now we have the dye ready). They make hard mould as well
2) They use mix of both Pig iron (From Big industries like JSW and all that who work from Iron Ore and Coke) and Scrap (Generated by industry itself), and add the remaining elements on top to get molten
iron with around 1200c (Iron with Carbon init(Pig iron) had low melting temperature as compared to pure iron)
3) They then pour the liquid steel into the dye
4) It is then cooled and sand is broken (soft sand) and that sand is reused

Dye making is done in opposite end, then the dye moves and then steel pouring is done in front side (Close to the QA Department)

Main Workshop-

The Cast iron block is never perfect. It always needs Machining/Tooling. So the casted piece is passed on for finished with various machining tools
However here, some of the internal viens are so small (500 microns) so that even tools cant reach. They just pass on Water Jet spray to remove impuriteis and rely on casting effieciency

1) We saw VMC (Vertical Machining Center), CNC (From Jyoti) (Computer Numeric Control), Turning. Top Notch MAchines (For Rajkot Atleast)
2) We also saw the 3D Camera To Visualizing the 3D image of the part inside computer

We learnt about the concepts of Turning, Machining, Drilling, Boring and all that interlated terms

Imp - Our Decarb does not affect them because their peice does not need super high strength nor does it face sever stress situation. They only care about the precision of metal itself 

We learnt the difference between Forging(Heating close but not yet at melting and then pressing to get desired shape) and Casting(Pouring Metal). 
And when to choose what

Roughly
1) Choose Forging when Strength is important as the grains flow along them so less fracture. Also it makes relatively more iron waste
Examples - Engine Parts under constant stress. Tools like Hammers, Wrenches. Crankshafts and connecting Rods. High Pressure Valves

2) Choose Casting when the shape is complex, and has hollow shapes, less material waste. But it comes with a cost of less strength 
Casting itself has different methods like Investment Casting and Die Casting
Examples - Engine Blocks (The one they are making), Jewellery

In The end both might require Machining(For finishing, their extent depends on precision required) as well
as Heat Treatment (For strenth, their extend depends on the strength required)


Then we returned to Vavdi

Furnace 9 at vavdi has the oxygen probe attached

The lab from where we do structure closes around 7 PM. I saw Sandeep cut a sample of heat
treated coil and then we write coil number on that piece and give it to worker to go send lab

We have the Digital Solenoid For Furnace 9 as well which is connected to the LPG Relief System. But note that
it is available exactly with Furnace 9 as well as Furnace 12(In Bhaktinagar). Rest Furnaces dont have the oxygen probe neither the automatic solenoid

A strange Phenomenon is recorded in Furnace 9. When the process starts...the mV reading in Oxygen Meter
starts to reduce like 11,10,9,8,7...upto 0mV. Then at sudden Temperature suddenly shoots upto 1100mV directly

We saw the N2,LPG flow meter installed in both Factories now. They are connected to N2, LPG whose bottles kept there
It checks Litre Per minute

Data coming From Digital Display to Computers CPU for the ESCAN Software via RS232 or RS485 cable. Its a simplex and not Half or Full duplex
since data sender is wire coming from display to CPU. The data sender itself gets data from Furnace' Thermocouple which is just a data emitter

Simplex - Data comes ONLY FROM A TO B. B CANNOT TRANSMIT. Like Keyboard to CPU. CPU never talks to Keyboard
Half Duplex - Data comes from both A and B. BUT ONLY ONE AT A TIME. Like Walkie Talki
Full Duplex - Data comes from both A and B. SIMULTANEOUSLY. Like modern Phones